#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

ThiNG Project Diary
\layout Standard


\emph on 
tonyg, 12 Dec 2004:
\emph default 
 Today Matthias Radestock emailed through a link to a website about the
 L programming language (and operating system).
 The project is being run by a Tony Hannan, a PhD student at Georgia Tech.
 The language is really quite similar to ThiNG.
 We've been working faster, though 
\family typewriter 
;-)
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

He seems to have Baker's shallow-bound-transaction idea at the core of the
 language, along with extremely restricted mutable state.
 He's still using single-dispatch, though.
 Also, his metaobjects are the lexical scope and the dynamic state of the
 code, where ThiNG is based on locations and explicit reflection.
 Actually, I have a feeling ThiNG is going to end up 
\emph on 
completely
\emph default 
 reflective, with very little hardwired behaviour.
\layout Standard

The paper he's writing about L gets into a lot of the mathematical structure
 we haven't formalised yet, which is nice, since we can look at how he's
 done it for when we want to write down our formalisms.
\the_end
